Welcome back to our library studio.
I'm your host, Craig Winn, and well,
this is the south side of a Wookie
going north quite literally.
Oh, thank you for turning around there,
Wook.
We are going to return to a somber
story.
This is the lowest point that humanity
would ever fall.
It is the closest to the brink of
our demise that we ever came.
This is not just the moment
where Dowd, who is David,
tripped and fell,
coveting another man's wife, stealing her,
likely raping her,
and then killing her husband.
It is the moment where he blamed God
for his problems as opposed to taking
responsibility himself,
and more importantly,
getting up from
his tumble and showing that he could be
trusted again.
And as I have shared the narrative that
God provides in his own words in the
fifty first Psalm, I have.
It's somber,
it's I have been exceedingly critical.
tremendously judgmental of the man that I
respect more than any other,
not for what he did here,
but what he would ultimately accomplish on
our behalf.
And not only do I recognize that Dowd
lived some forty-eight years in the center
of the arena,
doing the job that heretofore no one has
ever accomplished and seen to its
completion,
that of representing Yahowah to his people.
And that after forty-eight years of doing
really admirably in this regard,
I go to Phil.
And it is likely that even before this
episode that he began to deal with bouts
of depression.
recognizing that he really couldn't get it
done,
that it was too much and that he'd
been doing it too long and he was
worn out.
And I'm convinced, as are others,
that he was beginning to self-medicate by
drinking himself into oblivion to take his
mind off of his depression.
And it was through the depression and the
alcohol speaking
that he said what is now recorded in
the fifty-first Psalm.
The other thing I want to make clear,
beyond the fact that Dowd, A,
had forty-eight great years before this,
which is longer than anyone had ever
served in that role, and B,
that we would get his attention.
We would get him back to the point
where he...
not only would acknowledge that he had
been terribly and tragically wrong,
but he would accept who he is.
He would come to know what God expected
of him, and he would man up,
and he would fulfill the most difficult
mission in all of human history,
that of fulfilling Pesach, Matsah,
and Bikuwrym in his second of three lives
in thirty-three CE.
The other point I want to make is
that when we
Here, Dowd lashing out at Yahowah.
When we hear him blaming God for his
own failings and confusing all of this so
badly as he did,
what I want you to see,
what God wants you to see is Israel.
At this point,
Dowd was symbolic of what Israel had
become during the Exodus and has remained.
He was Israel.
This is Israel.
And the point that God wants to make
is that with Dowd representing how far
Israel had fallen,
that just as there was promise of a
better tomorrow for Dowd and that he would
return to Yahowah and return to his mission
and complete it,
such is also the case with Yisrael.
some of you,
a mortal remnant of you in the end,
will do so.
You will come to know Yahowah.
You'll return to him and you will be
restored as well.
And as it turns out,
it's interesting to note that the man who
was responsible for restoring Dowd's
relationship with Yahowah is also the man
who will restore
the remnant of Israel's relationship with
God.
And so it makes all of this poetic
in a way.
As I shared in our last program,
when Dowd chose bara' in this next
sentence, he was way out of line.
bara' is a word in Hebrew that speaks
of create from the sense of doing
something that has never been done before.
It's starting fresh.
It's creating something that has never
existed.
And so this is what Dowd said.
You must choose to create, bara'.
It's imperative that you decide to fashion
and form that which has never existed
before.
Call imperative second person masculine
singular.
something that is clean and pure in
judgment and thoughts and emotions,
inclination and disposition, leb, for me.
And then he ends it with God.
So you must choose to create.
It's imperative that you decide to fashion
and form that which has never existed,
clean and pure, majestic and brilliant,
Judgment, thoughts and emotions,
inclinations and disposition for me, God.
Then it is imperative that you decide to
repair,
restoring and renewing by appointing a
firm and a steadfast Ruwach spirit within
me.
Mizmowr
Song, Psalm, No.
No, he's wrong about everything.
Yeah,
I understand he's the returning king.
I understand he's the son of God.
But at this moment,
he wasn't acting like either.
God's not going to recreate something new
just for one man,
even if that one man is his beloved
son.
He set the rules.
He established them.
He communicated them.
He articulated them.
He...
fulfilled them.
He is not about to change them,
not for anyone.
He is not starting over.
We either get it right in this timeline
or not at all.
God is not going to have a new
creation because one person or a bunch of
people fell down and were having tizzy
fits.
So no.
And to use the imperative mood with
Yahowah,
which is what is being conveyed here,
you only have three options,
all three of which are wrong.
It either says you must choose,
must in the imperative,
choose in the conveyance of second person
volition,
or that we're dealing with some kind of
a hypothetical situation which has no
chance of success.
And so this is what is being conveyed
here.
Excuse me.
My dog has gone back to gnawing on
her paws.
She battles yeast infections and she takes
it out on her paws and will get
to the point where she can't even stand
up on them if I don't distract her
attention.
So that is what we're doing here.
So with everything in life,
we must pay attention to what's happening
around us or things will unravel.
So you must choose to create.
No, he doesn't.
And the clean and pure thoughts,
this majestic and brilliant judgment that
he is seeking here or mocking God
regarding,
isn't God's responsibility.
He gave us a nepesh, a conscience,
and a neshamah conscience,
and a nepesh consciousness so that we
could observe the world around us and make
prudent decisions.
He gave us the text of his Towrah
and his prophets so that we could study
them and make sound decisions.
Our inclinations and disposition,
our thoughts and emotions,
our minds and hearts should be properly
established and guided based upon the
testimony that God has given us.
It's not his job to ignore all of
that and say, oh, no problem,
I'll just snap my fingers,
I'll wiggle my nose,
I'll make it all good for you because
you're special.
Not how he works.
He is not gonna change the rules,
not gonna start over and give you what
you want just because you want it or
because you're projecting it on him and
saying that he must do it.
He is not.
He articulated the means for us to have
appropriate thoughts and emotions,
inclinations and dispositions.
And those
instructions are found in his Towrah pay
attention to them learn from them grow as
a result of them and your judgment your
thoughts your inclinations your
disposition your heart and mind well will
be as it should be now taher majestic
and brilliant yeah well brilliant perhaps
clean and pure nah you know
Let's just say the right term would have
been right.
That if you get your act together and
you pay attention to what God has shared
with you,
then your judgment will be right.
So it is Tsadaq that he should have
written not to her.
And he never should have written Bara and
he should not have projected this on God.
He should have said, I will.
Redouble my efforts to study, to shamar,
to closely examine and carefully consider
your Towrah instructions.
So as a result, my judgment, thoughts,
emotions, and inclinations will be tsadaq,
right?
Take responsibility.
Then it is imperative that you decide to
repair,
restoring and renewing by appointing a
firm and stable Ruwach spirit.
Good grief, man,
you have completely lost it.
Wow,
it is dismal to see with the combination
of depression and alcohol.
can do to a man who has the
cognitive capability to be right,
to be articulate, to be moral,
but not now.
He is telling God that he is busted
because God's Ruwach spirit was defective.
That's what he's saying.
He was given...
The Ruwach spirit of Yahowah,
when he was eight years old,
never departed from him, not in this life,
not in the next two,
always supporting him.
The Ruwach spirit doesn't flinch.
The Ruwach spirit doesn't go AWOL.
The Ruwach spirit does not need to be
restored or renewed.
She's quite fine on her own.
It is not God's job to repair,
restore or renew.
The Ruwach, not within Dowd,
not within me as the Choter,
not within anyone to whom he has afforded
the benefits of his Ruwach.
But let's also be clear.
As the Choter,
that's a prophecy you can study in Yashayah
Yah, Isaiah eleven.
I have been given the seven spirits of
Yahowah.
They are the spirit of Yahowah himself,
the Ruwach of Yahowah himself,
the Ruwach of Chakmah, of wisdom,
of intelligent thought,
of providing rational insights, of byn,
of making reasonable,
logical conclusions based upon the
evidence by making connections between
things, binah.
The spirit of etsah,
which is the tree of comprehensive
analysis and counsel.
The spirit of gebuwrah.
The spirit of gebuwrah is that of boldness
and of courage and of steadfastness and
firmness and ferocity and complete and
total confidence,
such that remain unwavering.
the spirit of Da'ath,
which is the other half of Etsah,
and that is the tree of knowledge.
And the Ruwach, the spirit of Yira'ah,
of respect and reverence for everything
Yahowah and his name represent.
And having those seven spirits,
I still have free will.
If I go out and decide, you know,
that was a tough day.
I think I'm going to have a two
margarita lunch such that I'm messed up
for the rest of the day and can't
think straight and just want to go take
a nap.
That's on me.
Not on the Ruwach.
You know,
if I shirk my responsibility and take a
day off from this job and just lounge
around like I don't really care,
that's on me, not the Ruwach.
The Ruwach is there, ready, able, willing,
but only to help the able, ready,
and willing.
Dowd wasn't.
The Ruwach wasn't broken.
He was.
The Ruwach do not usurp our free will.
They do not control us.
And mind you, when I'm speaking of this,
there aren't a hundred people throughout
time that have had Yahowah's Ruwach within
them.
and there's only one that have had the
seven Ruwach of Yahowah.
So this isn't a,
this is a unique situation when he's
speaking to the Ruwach,
but he knew that Yahowah gave him the
Ruwach, was never gonna remove the Ruwach,
and he's just simply shifting blame,
and he's wrong.
Now, thinking properly, as I've shared,
it's our responsibility, it's not God's.
Yahowah conveyed the means to this result,
and the rest is up to us.
This all gets back really to the prime
directive.
You know what that is?
We were conceived to be observant,
responsive, and reliable.
It's the only way God's going to empower
us to the degree that we are able
to shed our physical bodies and have our
souls encapsulated in light energy and be
able to
explore the universe with god and rise
through the dimensions in time so the
covenant is a relationship in this regard
once we demonstrate that we are observant
responsive and reliable it is not an
entitlement
Our judgment,
our every thought and emotion,
can be properly guided by Yahowah's Towrah
teaching.
But alas,
both Yahowah and the Towrah were
conspicuously missing from Dowd's
diatribe.
He never mentioned Towrah.
He never mentioned Yahowah's name.
He never mentioned the Beryth covenant.
Yeah,
this diatribe of Dowd's was missing some
really key ingredients.
And the very fact that it didn't mention
Yahowah's name,
it made Dowd ever more like, guess who?
Israel.
That has erased it, forgotten it.
Now, as a result, the king was, well,
confused.
Whether it be the depression,
whether it be the wine,
whether it just be he was having a
rough time of it.
There was nothing wrong with the Ruwach
spirit.
The Ruwach Yahowah had placed upon Dowd
during his anointing at eight years of
age, did not need to be repaired.
That spirit would remain steadfast.
She does her thing.
We are grateful when we have her counsel
and support.
However,
the Ruwach spirit of Yahowah is not a
dictator.
There is no usurping of free will.
She is a guide, a contributor, a resource,
and can be an inspiration.
But to enjoy these benefits of her
counsel,
one has to be attuned to her nature
and to her purpose.
So in this assessment,
Dowd was casting aspirations on the Ruwach.
claiming that she was faulty.
Indeed, the cause of his impropriety.
As if the Ruwach thought that Bathsheba was
pretty, pretty, and that the Ruwach said,
man, to have a little piece of that,
I'll go kill somebody.
No.
No, not in a billion, trillion,
gazillion years.
Ruwach did not need to be repaired.
There was no reason to purge her.
to replace her that would have been
counterproductive the rock of Yahowah is
magnificent it's a one of the greatest
gifts anybody could ever have I say one
of the the rock is magnificent I mean
it's uh it's more valuable than all of
the gold and jewels on the planet uh
but
Yahowah is a greater gift too, still.
His Towrah is a marvelous gift.
The covenant is a marvelous gift.
The Miqra' are marvelous gifts.
The Towrah is all part of that.
So it wasn't the spirit who lacked
resolve, it was Dowd.
So let's face reality.
As I said, the king was wrong.
He had shirked his responsibility by
sending Yisrael out to ravage a foe while
he languished in bed.
He wanted his servants to brutalize and
plunder a city filled with non-combatants.
He was sleeping during the day and
carousing at night.
He was abusing alcohol and he had become
a voyeur.
He acted lustfully even when he knew
better.
He had gathered the facts regarding
Bathsheba and he deliberately,
knowingly and selfishly pursued what he
knew to be wrong.
He abducted a married woman from her home
and immediately had sex with her.
He tried to conceal his malfeasance with
an elaborate scheme only to disrespect the
decisions of a good man and make a
spectacle of ongoing debauchery.
Then he plotted to assassinate the man who
he had insincerely wined and dined just
the previous night,
writing a deplorable letter that he made
him carry.
And if becoming a lousy king, husband,
father, and son were not enough,
he turned on God and started blaming
Yahowah for the Ruwach that he had offered
him.
Blaming the Ruwach for the mess he himself
had made.
after besmirching God and the spirit,
the king begged,
you should not throw me away.
You should not cast me aside like this.
You should not fling me out or hurl
me down from your presence.
And your Ruwach Qodesh,
your set apart spirit,
you're never gonna take from me.
You will not actually grasp, hold,
obtain or collect
The spirit from me.
Well, he was right on both accounts.
But to taunt God with this,
he was wrong.
Yeah, it's true.
God was not going to throw it away.
Although they were not in one another's
presence at this time.
and the set-apart spirit,
the Ruwach Qodesh.
He was never going to take from Dowd,
although she was doing him no good at
this moment.
They were also on the outs.
But let's be clear.
It was not Yahowah who had discarded Dowd,
but the son who had rejected his father.
As for the Ruwach,
God had clearly stated forty-eight years
prior to this day that the spirit would
never depart.
There was no reason to taunt God over
what he had promised.
Once again,
confronted by an awkward use of the
imperative mode,
we do not know if Dowd was being
demanding or projecting what he wanted
unto God, but this time,
There is a difference because the
imperative was combined with the
cohortative,
making this a merging of wills.
But alas,
while that may have been a step in
the right directions under the right
circumstances,
it wasn't Yahowah who needed saving.
Listen to this.
It's written in the imperative.
and the cohortative.
Hypothetically, by mandate or by choice,
by your will or mine,
it's emphatic that you return to me.
For all the jubilation of your yesha'
deliverance, your rescue, liberation,
and salvation,
and with a dignified and honorable,
willing and acceptable spirit,
Choose to support and uphold me.
Mizmowr
Song, Psalm.
There should have been nothing
hypothetical about this.
There should have been nothing as a
commander mandate about this.
Dowd should not even have been requesting
it as a product of his will.
God is quite clear on Shuwb.
I say it all the time as if
watching the Seinfeld episode on the soup
Nazi.
Shuwb for Shuwb or no Shuwb for you.
Israel,
this is the message you need to hear.
It's the message articulated through the
prophet Howsha and elsewhere through the
prophets in Towrah.
You departed Yahowah, you left him,
just as Dowd did on this occasion.
He will not return to you until you
return to him.
The same thing was true with Dowd.
God was not going to resolve this problem
with his son.
He had walked away.
He had made a decision long ago
that he would resolve problems of this
magnitude through an individual of his
choosing,
who he inserted for this purpose.
And in this case,
he gave Dowd the double whammy,
a husband and wife, a mother and father.
And only when they read Dowd the riot
act, when they dressed him down,
when they gave him a stiff dose of
reality,
when they provided
him with a mirror.
And he returned to Yahowah.
Did Yahowah return to him?
Yes,
Dowd is also mocking Yahowah here and
saying that the reason you have to return,
God, no matter how bad he has been,
he says, ha, ha, ha,
you may be having a tizzy fit and
blaming me for being a bad boy,
but
Based upon your own testimony,
there is no yesha', salvation.
There is no deliverance.
There's no rescue.
There's no liberation for Yisrael,
for Dowd,
for humankind without this relationship
being resolved.
Unless Yahowah can return to Dowd,
there is no rejoicing.
There is no salvation.
There is no hope for humanity.
He had that part right.
But what he had wrong.
is mandating God's return.
The truth is, Dowd had to return.
The essence of that is presented in the
last word picture,
and then again in the eighty-ninth
Mizmowr.
Tough to read, isn't it?
Tough to hear.
And with the dignified, honorable,
willing and accepting spirit to support
and uphold me.
He is again, blaming the Ruwach.
There are times when I'm like the others
who have tried to do this mission and
I get frustrated and I say, come on,
God, I mean, this is just impossible.
This job you want me to do,
you gotta make it a little bit easier.
I need some help here.
And he doesn't have any frustration with
that because he knows it's hard.
He knows it's darn near impossible.
He knows his people are idiots and jerks
and malcontents and irascible.
And he knows that the Gowym who hate
them are even worse.
He knows that no one who has been
designated to speak for him has ever been
accepted.
And they have all...
been crushed particularly by the religious
but also by the political so god knows
it's a exceedingly difficult job and it
doesn't even mind when you know when we
say this job god is impossible I mean
I’m going to keep on doing it because
that's what you expect and I appreciate
your support and we'll get her done but
oh my this is does it really have
to be this difficult
And the answer is yes, it does.
And the answer is yes,
we're going to get it done.
that the Spirit will remain dignified and
honorable, willing.
And the fact is that the Spirit is
royal, noble,
and accommodating because the Spirit comes
from Yahowah.
And it's the purpose of the Spirit to
uphold us, to decide to sustain us,
to empower us, to influence us.
All of that's true.
It just isn't true with the attitude.
from which that Down delivered it that's
psalm so this was another twisted
half-truth once Down regained composure
and his conscience was restored and
redirected he would shuwb he would return
to Yahowah making it possible for god to
shuwb return to him with our father it
is shuwb for shuwb or
There is no Shuwb for you.
Keep that in mind, Israel.
Also, once together,
their collaboration would liberate us from
our guilt,
resulting in a celebration of salvation.
And while Yahowah is rejoicing that
eventually we're going to get this right
and we are ultimately all beneficiaries,
there was no laughing matter at the
moment.
So it's true.
Also,
that God has more than one Ruwach.
He could have substituted the Ruwach inside
of Dowd.
He didn't, but he could have.
And it is possible for a Malak spiritual
being, not a Ruwach,
but certainly for a Malak spiritual being
to be dishonorable.
Look at ha-Satan.
But that was not the problem here.
The Ruwach spirit given to Dowd by Yahowah
was and will forever be dignified and
noble.
Coming from God, she is also royal.
However,
one should never ask Yahowah to do
something that he is overtly committed to
providing.
By doing so,
a person is either revealing that they
haven't bothered to read or consider what
God has previously stated,
or that they don't trust him to honor
his commitment.
Either way, it's disrespectful.
And speaking of disrespectful,
God has returned to taunting the Almighty,
although I don't think he's ever refrained
from that in this whole diatribe,
which is what makes him so symbolic of
Israel at this moment.
He is not only saying that he will
be inclined to act if God gives him
what he wants,
but that the result will reflect the very
mess that he has already made.
That's quite a thought, isn't it?
Dowd is telling God,
I will do what you want if you
give me what I want.
But understand that if I give you what
you want,
it's going to be no different than this
mess.
And that is to suggest,
as bad as Dowd had become,
that the rest of Yisrael would be no
better forever.
He said,
I will be inclined to learn and teach,
Lamad.
I will choose to respond, even submit,
so as to accept training and then
instruct.
Call, imperfect, cohortative,
first person, singular.
It means inclined, choose, accept,
is all a product of the cohortative.
It is an expression of first person
volition.
It has to be included in the statement.
Therefore,
I will be inclined to learn and teach
the pasha, the rebellious and revolting,
the offensive and the defiant,
the indignant and criminal,
the disloyal and insubordinate your ways,
your approach.
Then Chata'ym, the wicked and the immoral,
the misleading and misled,
the culpable and blameworthy,
even the fallacious, chata' 'any,
the erroneous and faulty,
they will return to you.
Oh, yikes.
I don't think you can call it a
strikeout anymore unless we're trying to
strike out the side over nine innings.
Baseball hadn't even been invented and
here he was fanning away.
Well,
hitting foul balls right back in God's
face.
A series of half-truths and outright lies
does not a truth make.
Sure,
those who were overtly religious or
political had been insubordinate and even
indignant toward Yahowah.
It's the nature of Israel,
it's the history of Israel,
and the gowym are worse.
Religion in particular is revolting,
it's offensive.
However,
the prerequisite of the covenant requires
us to reject this defiance against God
prior to proceeding toward a relationship
with him.
Therefore,
the currently pasha are not to be afforded
or even shown Yahowah's ways.
God does not want anything to do with
them.
if you follow me on the Craig Winn
Facebook page where I interact every day,
usually four or five times a day.
And there'll be twistians and political
magas, both, sometimes Muslims,
even occasionally a Marxist who will take
umbrage with me and try to promote their
agenda.
And while I will typically respond once
I will not provide a comprehensive defense
because Yahowah wouldn't want me to.
The fact is that I can tell them
if they want to know the truth,
which they don't,
they can find it at Yada Yahowah.
Go to YadaYah.com.
There's thirty five books on the on that
website,
hundreds and hundreds of of
vlogs like this one many many other
insights and tools by the way we now
have the translation um presented in a
really a glorious way it's much more
interactive and capable presenting every
iteration of every verse that I’ve ever
translated by book and number
chronological order with the ability to
click the words themselves and going to
definitions of the words or click the
reference and go directly to the flip book
in which it is presented in context.
It is a marvelous tool.
I know it was finished a couple of
days ago,
and I don't know if it's been made
live on the Yada Yahowah site,
but it will be there very soon because
it is now completed.
Thank you, Joe, and thank you, Leah,
for working with him to get a
a search engine for our translations of
this quality.
It's a wonderful thing,
wonderful addition.
But go to YadaYah.com,
and I will tell them, you know,
go there.
If you want to learn, there you go.
But the thing is,
I will never debate with them.
If they make statements,
I'll typically leave whatever they wrote,
no matter how offensive it is,
no matter how wrong it is,
and I will correct it.
And I'm not correcting it for them.
God wants something to do with them.
I'm correcting it for those in our company
so they know the correct answer and so
that when they're confronted,
they can give a similar answer.
But I will never chase after them.
I will never try to convince them.
One of the things that religious do all
the time,
they want to convince you that you're
wrong and they're right and that you need
to come over to their side because, well,
it reinforces their faith, their belief.
God has no interest in that.
He has his testimony.
It does not change.
He present what he has said.
You stick with it.
You reinforce it.
You don't waver from it.
And you never invite somebody who is pesha
or chata'ym, misleading or fallacious,
who is wrong about God.
You do not invite them into God's company.
In fact,
they are not welcome in God's company.
And as a matter of fact,
what he's saying isn't even possible.
They cannot enter God's company.
And that's similarly true with chata'ym,
misleading and fallacious.
They are despised by God.
They are expressly excluded from his
presence.
So while the misled can be restored to
fellowship,
those who are still culpable cannot.
Neither category of men, pesha or chata'ym,
are able to shuwb,
return to Yahowah until they stop being
Pasha and Chata'ym.
Capisce?
But that wasn't the point Dowd's
attempting to convey.
He is continuing to blame Yahowah.
He's saying that even if he returns to
duty,
even if he considers being part of this
mission again,
it will result in more of the same.
Unable to see past his nose to Uwryah,
the light of Yah,
who was a very good man,
or foresee others arising over time who
would be right.
The king is continuing to be defeatist.
He's saying, I'm bad.
They're bad.
And your approach isn't going to make me
or them any better.
It's pretty defeatist, isn't it?
This time,
with the imperative mood devoid of the
cohortative,
we find either the possibility of being
plucked clean or the demand to be stripped
now of killing and blood guilt as we
move on.
But that wouldn't be possible prior to the
fulfillment of Passover on yeasted bread,
both of which were a major restoration of
his attitude and a full millennia away.
By possibility, command, or choice.
Decide and determine to spare me,
snatching me away.
That's natsal 'any.
It is imperative that the slight chance
exists and is chosen for you to strip
me, saving me by plucking me away.
Hipple, imperative, second person,
masculine, singular, from blood.
from death, from killing and blood guilt.
min dam, from bloodletting.
God, God of my deliverance and victory.
Then my tongue will shout,
crying out your righteousness and justice.
Mizmowr
Song, Psalm.
Fifty-one, fourteen.
Not getting any better, is it?
Yeah,
it was already on record stating that the
consequence of Dowd's
Extinguishing the light of Uwryah would be
a long litany of death and destruction for
Israel.
Neither God nor Israel would be putting
down the sword anytime soon.
There would be lots of bloodletting,
much of it Israeli.
In fact,
it would continue for three thousand years
and it will finally end with the bleeding
of the par bull,
whose blood Dowd would use to anoint the
mercy seat of the Ark of the Covenant,
finally resolving all of this for him and
for Yisrael between Taruwah and Yowm
Kipurym in year six thousand YAH,
twenty thirty three.
Therefore,
following the bloodletting of Pesach and
Taruwah two to three millennia distant from
this diatribe,
The king would return to shout out the
full magnitude of Yahowah's righteousness.
It is ultimately God who is tsadaqah,
correct and vindicating.
So in this, the king was right,
even if his attitude was wrong.
However, once again,
what follows is another partial truth,
the worst kind.
When you commingle truth and lies,
all you do is confound.
Yahowah is not our Lord,
and we do not need him to open
our lips so that we can report to
the truth.
His message ought to enter our eyes and
ears, formulate in our brains,
and then naturally flow out of us in
complete appreciation for him.
But even then,
Yahowah should be respected for what he has
done and is offering.
He is not soliciting our praise.
He is not insecure.
At this moment, unable, unwilling,
To even say Yahowah's name, Dowd begins,
Adonay, my Lord.
You open my lips,
and my mouth will report your praise.
Having not experienced the intervention of
Yahowah's ‘Amah, productive mother,
or her Baal husband,
The son was grasping at straws.
He wanted an easy way out,
and yet realizing that he would serve as
the sacrifice that Yahowah wanted was,
well, what he would try to assert next.
He said, unfortunately,
you do not want or desire
and you are not moved by sacrifice or
slaying.
Or I would elect to provide,
choosing to give an uplifting or burnt
offering,
but you will not accept or agree.
Psalm, fifty one, sixteen.
What God had said is that he did
not want or desire and was not moved
by.
the sacrifices and the offerings of men.
He takes no pleasure in slaughter.
And he said here that I would provide,
I would choose to give you something,
you know, a token.
We'll go off and pluck the wings off
a dove or roast a lamb or skewer
a bull.
And, you know, I would do that.
You know,
no skin off my nose to do that.
He said,
but you wouldn't agree to accepting.
It's true.
Not under these circumstances.
You will not be swayed.
You will not be fond of.
You will not allow the regaining of flavor
under these circumstances.
Alas.
Ultimately, he would offer the sacrifice.
He did.
He would.
God would accept it.
And the fact is that once he got
his head back in the game and
returned to Yah,
realized who he is and what he was
supposed to do,
then there would be two remarkable
sacrifices,
both of which God would find acceptable
because he would coordinate both of them.
And they were scheduled to occur on
Passover in year four thousand Yah,
33 CE,
and then on the day of the Herald
in the Yowbel of 6000 Yah,
2033.
As a result of this
I should say a revolt of this magnitude.
However,
it wasn't going to be resolved by a
flock of birds or a goat.
This was going to take something special.
Unaware of this prior to his dressing down
by Leah, my wife,
as she visited him as the ‘Amah,
And Dowd returning to his senses,
sobering up after his very rough,
unceremonious encounter with Yada.
Dowd remained especially irritable and
irascible for a while longer.
Things unraveled all around him,
which is how we know this to be
the case.
It is as if he were trying to
outdo the Israelites during the Exodus.
And.
irascibility.
And this next line.
It's particularly brutal.
The sacrifices of God.
Are broken.
And destroyed.
a shattered and crushed spirit,
judgment thinking and motivations that are
shattered and crushed,
even pulverized to the point of becoming
despondent.
God,
you should not be so despised and
contemptible, despicable and lowly.
I'm not making this up.
You can read it as Psalm fifty one,
seventeen.
Personally,
I didn't think it could come to this.
Frankly, I don't know this man.
Although it's apparent I would meet with
him.
But I think in our meeting,
I told him to shut up and listen.
told him not to open his mouth until
I was done.
He had made a big enough fool of
himself.
The sacrifices of God are not broken.
They're not destructive.
They're not shattering or crushing.
They're all presented as olah.
It's from alah.
It means uplifting.
They are exactly the opposite.
Yahowah never crushes the Ruwach.
Ruwach is dispatched from him.
If Dowd were being rational,
he would have complained about having a
crushed nepesh soul.
That would have been his.
The Ruwach was not his.
It was loaned to him.
And none of this was the Ruwach's fault.
And the sacrifices of God are uplifting.
Now,
I will tell you that if you're going
to be one of the three people that
is offering a sacrifice, the ram,
the bull, and the goat, Dowd, Yada,
and ElYah,
you're going to have your body broken and
destroyed, shattered and crushed.
That's the way the sacrifice goes.
But it's your body.
You don't care.
Your soul's fine.
That's why distinguishing nepesh here
would have been important.
And the Ruwach protects the nepesh soul
during the process so that the sacrifice
of the body is done in such a
way that the soul is not bruised or
mauled or smashed in the process.
God would have a lot to learn.
And God has no interest in shattering or
crushing,
breaking the judgment thinking and
motivations of anyone.
He is trying to hone them.
He is trying to develop them.
He's trying to encourage this.
And he says so throughout his testimonies.
And the one who was despondent was Dowd
Daka.
Daka is a term also that's used in
connection with the Adamah Parah.
His body will be Daka,
pained and collapsed,
wounded and crumpled,
pulverized to the point of being virtually
destroyed.
And then to conclude it with God,
you should not be so despised and
contemptible, despicable and lowly.
lo'bazah
you should not be so vile and worthless.
You know,
I think you'll notice that the last three
times we've done this program,
I've worn black.
I feel like I'm attending a funeral.
I feel like I am burying my king,
my brother, my friend,
the man I've respected more than any
other.
But you see,
I knew the man who lived the first
forty-eight years so valiantly.
And I knew the man who would emerge
from this after the counsel of his
surrogate mother and father,
after the intercession of the final Mashal
and the glorious eighty-ninth psalm.
And we will return to that man shortly.
We will celebrate that man because he
exists.
But right now, you wouldn't know it.
So whether it was the alcohol, depression,
or just an embittered soul looking for
love in all the wrong places while showing
an abject disregard for God and for life,
And he's quasi-suicidal at this point.
Even a modicum of responsibility.
Had he had it,
he wouldn't have done this.
This is reprehensible.
It's inexcusable.
I'm disappointed to have translated it.
And I'm even more upset to have to
share it with you.
Dowd at the moment was a broken man.
He is political Israel.
He is religious Israel.
Three thousand years ago,
a thousand years ago,
two thousand years ago, right now, today,
over the next seven years, indeed, broken.
It's just that Dowd, like Israel,
fell more precipitously and publicly
and the fate of the world was resting
on him getting back on his feet again,
as will the fulfillment of Taruwah,
Kipurym, and Sukah,
just over seven years from now.
Now,
should you have questioned whether a
subsequent scribe had the audacity to
pray,
to portray the king in this unflattering
light,
while there would be no motivation for
doing so,
there's also no evidence of tampering
revealed in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
We have two copies of this psalm,
four Q. Eighty-five P.S.
and four Q. Ninety-one P.S.
And while they only cover the first four
of nineteen statements,
There are a surprising number of spelling
anomalies in them.
That's likely because Dowd was not about
spellcheck at the moment.
He was too inebriated.
But nothing of that alters the meaning of
the words themselves.
Yahowah is in the business of inspiring our
souls, of emancipating and empowering us,
enabling us, enhancing our existence.
These are the expressed benefits of the
covenant.
It is only those who mislead his people
and who are overtly opposed to him whose
souls are crushed in the abyss of Sheowl.
This isn't a sacrifice of God or to
him,
but of the wanton disregard for God's
intent and the destruction of our own
souls.
by making poor choices.
Very few humans,
and perhaps fewer than one in a billion,
are afforded the Ruwach of Yahowah.
I made this point previously.
And the intended result among the few is
for our judgment to soar,
for our thinking to be elevated,
for our motivations to align with
Yahowah's.
It is God's desire to build us up,
to elevate us so that we can become
ever more like him.
And while there are two bodies,
as I have shared,
that are slated for Shabar and for Daka,
it is their disposable Basar bodies,
not a Ruwach or a Nepesh that is
being crushed.
Yahowah elevates his covenant family.
and only depresses those who are overtly
opposed to them and him.
So now trying to intervene his will with
God's.
This next pronouncement isn't appropriate
either way.
I wouldn't dare ask God to do better
or to be better
But Dowd did.
No matter how improbable,
if commanded and mandated or by choice,
your will and my unequivocal desire is for
you to be good, to be better,
even agreeable and pleasing.
If possible,
demanded or by your volition or mine,
You will improve,
you're gonna be happier in your acceptance
and approval.
With Tsyown, the signs posted along the way,
you continually build up walls and
barriers.
Jerusalem,
the source of guidance on reconciliation.
Yahowah is not the one who built
Jerusalem's walls.
He is not trying to keep his people
away.
In fact, he's calling them home.
Moreover,
he wants everyone to read his, Tsyown
his signs that are posted along the way.
They bring his people home.
If not for everything preceding it.
Now this concluding statement would be
considered prophetic.
The only minor adjustments would be the
plural form of par bull when the singular
designation would be more accurate.
Also, by comparison to where we have been,
however, this is manna from shamaym.
It's the one flicker of light in this
very long and dark tunnel.
At that time,
you will want proper and vindicating
sacrifices, a burnt and elevated offering,
which is entirely finished and wholly
completed .
Then at that time in the future,
will choose to be sacrificed and offered
up, ascending and rising,
will be lifted up and carried away.
on your altar,
Mizmowr Song, Psalm.
That is the concluding statement.
Well,
there was no altar or burnt offering on
Pesach,
not when Dowd fulfilled it in
33 CE,
even with it being an exceptionally vital
sacrifice.
But both of these things will be present
on Taruwah when ElYah orchestrates the
sacrifice of the par bull.
And at that moment,
all will be right and vindicating relative
to Dowd and Yisrael.
If you don't mind,
as it relates to this particular black
stain on my King's resume,
I'm going to forego the summation of the
mizmors as has been my custom.
And we're going to move on to better
times.
Enough is enough.
This fortunately was resolved and Dowd
Kalyl finished the mission just as Yahowah
will.
And he will be true to his calling.
We've left the darkness.
we will return to the light.
Something extraordinary is going to
happen.
And as we begin our family hour tomorrow
on this material,
we're going to delve into the glorious
result of the intervention.
We've already shared the 31st
proverb, the last Mashal.
And we've now delved into the darkness
that swallowed Dowd, necessitating it.
And now we will,
as we begin our program tomorrow,
we will share the resolution.
And then I'm going to do something that,
well, it's gonna blow your mind.
I'm gonna tell you how Dowd's
relationship with Yahowah was actually
resolved.
And it's stunning.
And it will feel familiar and it will
feel new all at the same.
So that's where we're headed.
I look forward to being with you.
We'll try to get in a early show.
Hopefully we'll be able to open the, uh,
the ocean studio tomorrow and finish the
ninth, uh, Mizmowr
of Dowd there and do a brief
program, uh,
as a warmup to family hour tonight, uh,
or tomorrow night, uh, beginning at, uh,
six o'clock Atlantic time, five, uh,
Eastern standard time.
And of course,
in the middle of the day for you
and the, uh,
Pacific time zone.
So we look forward to being with you
this time tomorrow.
Good night.